What is HTTP?

HTTP is a protocol. Specifically it is the hypertext transfer protocol which is standard use for the world wide web.
As a protocol it serves as a convention for comunication between two computers to talk to each other. 
This one specifically is used most often for browsers to communicate with servers to generate web markup (HTML).

What is a URL?

A URL is a universal resource locator. It is comprised of many parts (protocal, hostname, port, resource, query) in different combonations.
It is used to more easily input information that is communicated with different computers or servers.


What is HTTP?

HTTP is a protocol. Specifically it is the hypertext transfer protocol which is standard use for the world wide web.
As a protocol it serves as a convention for comunication between two computers to talk to each other.
This one specifically is used most often for browsers to communicate with servers to generate web markup (HTML).

What is a URL?

A URL is a universal resource locator. It is comprised of many parts (protocal, hostname, port, resource, query) in different combonations.
It is used to more easily input information that is communicated with different computers or servers.

What is DNS?

DNS is the domain name system and it has the task of taking what a user inputs into a browser and turning that into an IP address.
This is done is that communication is possible with cache, routers, and servers.

What is a query string?

A query string is the final part of a URL and can be used to further specify a request that is made on a server.
A search term is a dommon example of a query.

What are two HTTP verbs and how are they different?

GET and POST are two HTTP verbs (or methods) and they change the type of request that is made upon a server.
Get is a method that is used for static request, that don't manipulate the server or database.
While post is a method that is used when updating or changing a server or database in some way.

What is an HTTP request?

An HTTP request is a request made by the web broswer upon a server.
It consists of a method, the protocol (HTTP), the version (1.1 usually for HTTP), the URL wanted, along with any addition information known as headers.

What is an HTTP response?

An HTTP response is the response the browser receives from the server after an HTTP request is made.
The response contains the protocol (HTTP), the version (1.1), a response status code (common: 200, 301, 304, 404, 500), and any additional information in the headers.
The header will often include the content type, date and time, and any cookies or caching information.

What is an HTTP header? Give a couple examples of request and response headers you have seen.

A header is additional information in an HTTP request and responce.
Common examples are content-type: text/html; date: Wed, 14 Apr...; a last-modified date and time; languages (accept-language); along with the method (get/post/etc.)

What are the processes that happen when you type “[http://somesite.com/some/page.html”](http://somesite.com/some/page.html%E2%80%9D) into a browser?

A lot goes into to producing an outcome when a URL is typed into a broswer.
The browser will turn the hostname ([somesite.com](http://somesite.com/)) into an IP address, then will attempt to connect to that address.
It seeks to connect to that IP address on a given port (not specified here, port 80 for HTTP).
It does this using a specified protocol (HTTP here).
Then asks that IP address (a server) for a given page or information (/some/page.html).
Along with any query strings added on (nothing here).
This is all done using a specific method (get, post) along with any additional information (headers).
The server will then attempt to locate information either on its own or thorugh communication with other servers or a database.
It will then respond with all the relevat information (the protocol, method, headers, but also the content itself).